A visit to a zoo offers us an opportunity to see the wild animals. Due to deforestation and urbanisation, many animals are fast disappearing. It is becoming difficult to see the wild animals in their natural habitat.
Zoo is a place where we can see different animals and birds at one place. It has great attraction particularly for the children. A visit to a zoo gives us both information and entertainment. We come to learn about the rare species.
Last Sunday, the weather was pleasant. I, along with my family, visited zoo. It is situated at a distance of twenty kilometers from our house. When we reached the gate of the zoo, there was huge crowd there. People were buying entrance tickets. Some of them were sharing their excitement about the visit of the zoo. We reached there at 11.30 a.m. We bought our tickets and went inside the zoo. There were a large number of people there.
We first visited zoological garden. There we saw a huge lake in which different types of water-birds were swimming. The sight of a white duck swimming on the smooth surface of clean water was a wonderful delight. Then we moved ahead to the enclosure where playing birds were chirping. They included sparrows, pigeons, eagles, parrots of different colours. Their enchanting music delighted us much.
There were wild animals like lions, tigers, leopards and tigresses in other enclosures. We were frightened at the roar of the lions. At the same time it was awesome to see the king of the forest. When someone moved near the enclosure, the majestic animal began to roar. Then we moved to the den of the tiger. Its flashing glare and sharp teeth filled us with fear. We also saw the elephants and bears. Then we came across a big garden in which stags and deers were frisking about. These animals were very active, sharp and smart. In one corner of the garden there was a big tree on which a large number of monkeys and baboons were jumping. Their tricks and pranks were very pleasing. Some people threw bananas at them to which they immediately tried to catch by jumping down the branches. Children were enjoying by making faces at them.
We next halted at an aquarium. There were varieties of aquatic animals and birds there. There were many species of fish. Their fidgeting in water was really very delighting. Next to this enclosure were kept polar bears who looked deserted and dejected.
Then we moved to a big tank which was full of crocodiles. These mammoth animals were very frightening. There were other water animals. We saw snakes like cobras and pythons. Some snakes were very fierce.
We spent five hours in the zoo. We took a full round of it and enjoyed ourselves a lot. We were happy to see all those animals with our own eyes about which we read in books. The memory of the visit still fills us with thrill and excitement.